the factory method is defined as providing an interface for object creation but delegating
the actual instantiation of objects to subclasses.

factory method
1. use it when you want to move the object creation logic from our code to a separate class
2. we use this pattern when we don't know in advance which class we may need to instantiate beforehand
and also allow new classes to be added to system and handle their creation without affecting client code
3. subclasses decide which object to instantiate by overriding the factory method

involves
Product - The Product declares the interface, which is common to all objects that can be produced
by the creator and its subclasses.
concreteProductA, concreteProductB - Concrete Products are different implementations of the product interface.


creator -
1 The Creator class declares the factory method that returns new product objects.
1.1. It’s important that the return type of this method matches the product interface.
1.2. You can declare the factory method as abstract to force all subclasses to implement their own versions of the method.
As an alternative, the base factory method can return some default product type.

Note, despite its name, product creation is not the primary responsibility of the creator.
Usually, the creator class already has some core business logic related to products.
The factory method helps to decouple this logic from the concrete product classes.
Here is an analogy: a large software development company can have a training department for programmers.
However, the primary function of the company as a whole is still writing code, not producing programmers.

concreteCreatorA, concreteCreatorB
Concrete Creators override the base factory method so it returns a different type of product.

Note that the factory method doesn't have to create new instances all the time.
*It can also return existing objects from a cache, an object pool, or another source.*

steps
we start by creating a class for our creator
creator itself can be concrete it can provide a default object or it can be abstract
Implementation will override the method and return an object


example
1. Message<<abstract>> Product class
1.1 TextMsg -> stores the message in text format
1.2 JsonMsg -> you know

2. MessageCreator<<abstract>>
2.1 TextMsgCreator
2.2 JsonMsgCreator



-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------



Simple factory is an IDIOM not a design pattern
simple factory encapsulates away the object instantiation in a separate method
example
product -> we need object of this class and it's subclasses(productA and productB)
simple factory -> provides a static method to get instance of the product
client -> psvm class
steps
1We start by creating separate class for our simple factory
1.1 add a method which returns desired object instance
1.1.1 this method is typically static and receives some argument and decides which class to instantiate

